oh yeah this is one pound of body fat
it's lumpy and it's ugly
this is muscle it's compact and it takes
up less space so why is it important to
check your body fat
well relying on a scale alone to measure
your weight won't give you a complete
picture of your body and sometimes
you'll gain muscle while losing fat and
the scale won't show you the difference
and lastly it doesn't matter what your
weight is it matters how you look
during p90x I gained weight in the first
two weeks since I was checking my body
fat each week I was able to see that I
was actually losing fat even though the
scale was going up because of the muscle
gain now there's several ways to check
it these are electrical impedance scales
they're horribly inaccurate they always
overestimate and I'm sure you don't have
a water submersion tank in your backyard
so I'm going to show you two methods for
checking your body fat today one is
simple you can do it yourself the other
one is pretty simple but you need
someone to help you here's what you'll
need you need a fat caliper and some
body fat we've all got it so let's uh
let's take a look at the fat caliper so
this fat caliper it's about six dollars
I bought it at amazon.com
it's the Accu measure but you can find
it at many different medical supply
stores health stores in your hand it's
it feels cheap it's it's plastic but it
gets the job done and it's accurate when
you hold it one hand and pinch a skin
fold it'll actually make a little click
then what you do is you look at the
measurement here you'll see it in inches
or millimeters and then when you're done
you've got to move the little lever back
to the right side pinch it again take
the reading so let's get started we're
going to start with the simple method
and this is just checking one location
on my body it's the supremely AK
location which is near the side so here
my wife has taken a diagonal skin fold
it's about one inch one to two inches
above my hip and then you just pinch it
with the caliper and then do the reading
here's a little bit of a closer look
you'll want to make sure the caliper is
halfway between the edge of the skin
flap and the body so here we'll move it
over a little bit that's about right
and then you take the measurement in
millimeters at the bottom and then you
plug it into this chart on the left hand
side of your age and across the top the
millimeters so this chart comes with the
fat caliper or you can pause the video
to look at it let's move on to the
comprehensive method in this method
there's four locations we look at the
abdominal the Supriya AK the arm and the
thigh the first location is the
abdominal it's right next to the navel
about an inch over and again pinch the
skin fold take the measurement and once
you're done it's really important to
push the lever back to the right side
take the next measurement here we're
looking at the soup really again this is
the same location that we measured
during the simple method so if you've
already got the reading from that spot
you can skip this one
but again just taking a closer look at
taking the reading with the caliper the
next location is the arm now here I was
initially flexing you want to make sure
you're not flexing your arm and take it
just behind or down below the the tricep
muscle it gets pretty difficult to pinch
skin when your body fat gets low but you
should be able to get some if the last
location is the thigh this is halfway
between the knee and the hip this again
can be difficult to squeeze because the
the skin gets pretty thick but you know
you might have to have it pinched pretty
tightly once you have your four
measurements we're going to enter them
into a free online calculator on a
website called linear online I'll go
ahead and put a link to this in the
video description but what I like about
this one is it also takes into account
your age and your weight in the top left
and then you enter your your figures in
millimeters in the middle then you hit
calculate scroll down a little bit and
you'll see the outcome of your results
which is your body fat percentage here
on the left as well as as the category
that you fit into so let's recap the
four steps number one take your
measurements in millimetres number two
enter them into the calculator along
with your age and weight and then make
sure you use the right calculator for
men and women because they do have one
for both so let's talk about some tips
for taking accurate measurements I
recommend taking them one time a week on
the same day same time for me that's
Saturday mornings but for you find when
that time is always take the right side
of the body and take your measurements
two or three times until you get a
consistent reading if you have any
questions go ahead and leave a comment
on the video for more fitness and
nutrition videos subscribe to our
YouTube channel and for more tips on
nutrition and fitness check out our
website at symbiotic Fitness com hey
thanks for watching